## Blockchain Case Study

# COINSQUARE: Bringing Credibility to Cryptocurrency

### What is it?
Coinsquare is one of the world’s premier cryptocurrency platforms for trading Bitcoin, Ethereum, XRP, and other cryptocurrencies. Coinsquare is FINTRAC regulated, has secured an exclusive relationship with one of Canada’s Big 5 banks, and has completed a comprehensive three-year financial audit. Coinsquare remains focused on transparency, risk mitigation, and building a regulated and safe environment for the trading of digital assets. We are on a mission to grow into a multi-faceted financial services company anchored in blockchain technology. Coinsquare is SSL and 2FA enabled, with a 95% cold storage policy on all digital currency and their 100% proprietary system has been stress tested and DDoS tested.

Coinsquare’s mission is to create a regulated and open financial platform for the world by leveraging blockchain technology.


### Challenge
In 2018, the frenzy over cryptocurrency reached an all-time high. While everyone seemed to be talking about the hottest investment of the year, the actual number of people with the confidence to invest was quite small. As one of Canada's largest players in the digital currency space with more than 100,000 customers on its trading platform, Coinsquare saw an opportunity to launch itself to a broader audience of potential investors.

### Approach
With a product that's difficult to understand and an industry filled with horror stories and scams, people don’t know who to trust in the crypto category. In order to overcome negative perceptions and establish Coinsquare as the authoritative industry leader and mirrored the truths of the category and built the brand's credibility through a connection strategy and media plan that took unexpected cues from Canada's most trusted financial institutions. Coinsquare's integrated launch campaign appeared not only in digital channels, but also during must-see TV (NBA and NHL playoffs), in high profile out-of-home locations, and in established business print media.

### Criticism
#### False Volumes of the exchange
In a settlement that aims a shot across the bow of the fledgling crypto asset sector and mounts its first defence of whistleblowers, the Ontario Securities Commission (OSC) sanctioned crypto trading platform Coinsquare Ltd. and several executives. The regulator found the firm faked its trading volume, lied about it, and retaliated against an internal whistleblower. Following a virtual hearing, an OSC hearing panel approved a settlement with Coinsquare and its executives that includes over $2.2 million in sanctions and costs, as well as industry bans.

The sanctions follow admissions that the firm violated securities rules by reporting inflated trading volume, which was generated by an internal algorithm that produced 840,000 wash trades (involving 590,000 Bitcoins), representing 90% of the platform’s reported trading activity. The OSC also found the firm made misleading statements about the phony volume when concerns were raised by clients on Reddit, and that Coinsquare retaliated against an internal whistleblower who brought concerns about the suspect volume to senior management. The whistleblower was terminated by the company. CEO Cole Diamond and founder, president and CTO Virgile Rostand admitted to facilitating the firm’s breaches of Ontario securities law, while former chief compliance officer (CCO) Felix Mazer admitted to failing to fulfil his role as CCO. Under the settlement, Diamond and Rostand both agreed to resign from the firm. Diamond paid a $1 million penalty and Rostand paid $900,000 and also Diamond and Rostand agreed to pay $300,000 in costs.


#### Breach in Data Security
Canadian crypto exchange Coinsquare said that an internal theft last year by a former employee resulted in personal information on some of its customers landing in the hands of a hacker or group of hackers.

Details of the incident were included in a story published earlier this week by news outlet Vice, which reported that the hacker or hackers intend to use the information – which contains email addresses, phone numbers and, in some cases, physical addresses – to perform SIM swap attacks. A SIM swap attack involves a fraudulent actor who uses personal information to effectively hijack a person’s phone number.

According to Cole Diamond, Coinsquare’s chief executive officer, the person quoted in the article is likely a former employee that stole data a year and a half ago. Diamond said the former employee stole data from a customer relationship management (CRM) system. Coinsquare became aware of the issue a year ago and contacted the police and a privacy commissioner, Diamond said. He said the crypto exchange “leveled up” its internal controls to ensure employees could not remove data from its CRM systems. According to Diamond, the referenced individual is trying to tarnish Coinsquare’s reputation as a secure cryptocurrency exchange over a theft that happened in the past.

Diamond said users whose data has been compromised have been contacted about changing their account information and enabling two-factor authentication. He declined to comment on the number of impacted users but said police are still investigating the scale of the theft.

“Anyone that is doing their job has to have access to data, so there’s only so much a business can do to protect itself from these sorts of occurrences,” he added.

 

### Outcome
From Reddit to the workplace water cooler, the buzz around Coinsquare quickly grew as they became the country's most-well-known name in digital currency. Brand reputation soared and helped corporate efforts to attract high-quality talent and legitimate industry partnerships to the organization.